                               15112 Term Project
                              Competitive Analysis
————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————

1 - Online Sudoku Solvers

    (a) Link: https://www.sudoku-solutions.com/
    
        As with most online solvers, this website is both an online Sudoku 
        generator and solver. While this solver has much functionality - it is 
        able to provide partial solution, checks and be constrained on puzzle-
        solving algorithms - it is still disadvantaged in many ways that most 
        online puzzles are.
        
        Firstly, online Sudoku puzzle solvers require the user to input numbers
        manually into a given 9x9 grid of squares, which is a hassle and simply
        putting the puzzle up to the camera can solve easily.
        
        Secondly, this specific solver can only solve 9x9 Sudoku grids, which is
        not the intention of the solver that I intend to implement - my solver
        should be able to detect and quickly solve 4x4, 9x9 and 16x16 grids.
        While 25x25 grids are theoretically possible, in reality they take much
        too long to solve without much more complex algorithms. This could be an
        idea for further expansion if I have time.

    (b) Link: http://sudoku-puzzles.merschat.com/
        
        This online solver is better than the last in the sense that it is able 
        to 'solve' puzzles ranging from 9x9 to 25x25. However, it is 
        fundamentally not solver because it cannot solve arbitrary puzzles - it 
        can only generate puzzles and provide their corresponding solutions, 
        which is a simple generation problem, not a solving problem.

2 - Smartphone Camera Sudoku Solvers

    (a) Link: http://thesmartphoneappreview.com/iphone/sudoku-solver-camera/
    
        This solver has a few advantages over online solvers which I would also
        like to implement - it can detect Sudoku puzzles directly from the 
        camera and read the digits accordingly. Even though the app purports to
        not be able to read handwritten digits, and the author of the above
        article mentioned that it was able to read handwritten digits, I intend
        to implement a version that can read handwritten digits with a high
        level of certainty in order to increase the flexibility of the 
        application.
        
        Another good idea from this application is to have a bounding box
        overlayed on the screen to ensure that the user knows to position the
        puzzle upright and within the box, and also to increase the ease of
        finding the puzzle and the corresponding digits.